README.md, before:

# Boiling Water

**Tagline:** "Learn chemistry by doing it"

An interactive physics and chemistry learning game that teaches through experimentation, starting with the simplest task: boiling water.

## 🎯 Core Vision

Like Kerbal Space Program taught orbital mechanics through play, Boiling Water teaches thermodynamics and chemistry through experimentation. The game uses **real physics equations** and **empirical data**—no "game physics" simplifications.

## 🚀 Quick Start

The project is currently in **planning/early development phase**.

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn

### Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build
```

## 🎮 The Hook

Someone googles "how to boil water" → finds BoilingWater.app → gets an instant interactive tutorial → discovers water boils at 98°C (not 100°C!) at their altitude → curiosity triggered → learning begins.

## 📚 Key Features

- **Real Physics Only** - Uses actual thermodynamic equations (specific heat: 4.186 J/g°C, heat of vaporization: 2,257 kJ/kg)
- **Zero Gatekeeping** - No login, instant load, starts with plain English
- **Adaptive Language** - Gradually introduces technical terms as user progresses
- **Layered Complexity** - Simple interface for beginners, detailed physics panels for experts
- **Progressive Unlocking** - Complexity revealed based on user engagement

## 🎓 Educational Progression

- **Stage 0:** Just boil water (30-second experience)
- **Stage 1:** Why altitude matters
- **Stage 2:** Temperature control and precision
- **Stage 3:** Measurement accuracy
- **Stage 4+:** Energy, phase changes, and chemistry expansion

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** React + Vite
- **Future Desktop:** Electron wrapper for Steam distribution
- **Why Web Tech:** This is a data visualization/simulation tool, not a traditional game

## 📖 Documentation

- [Full Documentation](BoilingWater_Full_Documentation.md) - Complete project vision and technical details
- [One-Page Pitch](BoilingWater_OnePage_Pitch.md) - Quick overview of the concept
- [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) - Setup and contribution guide _(coming soon)_

## 🎯 Current Status

**Phase:** Planning & Initial Development

See [BoilingWater_Full_Documentation.md](BoilingWater_Full_Documentation.md) for the complete vision and roadmap.

## 📝 License

**Dual Licensed:**
- **Code (Software):** GPL-3.0 - Free and open source
- **Creative Content:** CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 - Educational materials, documentation, and designs

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for full details.

## 🤝 Contributing

This project is in early development. Contributions welcome once MVP is established.

## 💡 Inspiration

- **Kerbal Space Program** - Teaches complex physics through accessible gameplay
- **Thing Explainer by Randall Munroe** - Explains complex concepts in simple language

---

**Status:** Planning Phase | **Date:** January 2026

Commit message:

Add git remote configuration to AI docs + optional theme effects system
AI Documentation Updates:
- Document git remotes (dev vs origin) in AI_CONTEXT.md and copilot-instructions.md
- Add push commands to quick reference
- Update README with links to reorganized docs and AI context guide

Theme Effects System (New Feature):
- Add optional effects.json for per-theme VFX (steam, flame glow)
- Update THEME_SYSTEM.md with effects documentation
- Implement theme-driven flame glow with intensity control
- Implement theme-driven steam animation with customizable symbol/color/movement
- Add effects preloading to improve performance
- Make effects opt-in (disabled by default for simple themes)
- Support parent theme inheritance for effects
- Update TODO_NEXT_SESSION.md with effects tracking

This completes the foundation for extensible VFX theming.

README.md, after:

# Boiling Water

**Tagline:** "Learn chemistry by doing it"

An interactive physics and chemistry learning game that teaches through experimentation, starting with the simplest task: boiling water.

## 🎯 Core Vision

Like Kerbal Space Program taught orbital mechanics through play, Boiling Water teaches thermodynamics and chemistry through experimentation. The game uses **real physics equations** and **empirical data**—no "game physics" simplifications.

## 🚀 Quick Start

The project is currently in **planning/early development phase**.

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn

### Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build
```

## 🎮 The Hook

Someone googles "how to boil water" → finds BoilingWater.app → gets an instant interactive tutorial → discovers water boils at 98°C (not 100°C!) at their altitude → curiosity triggered → learning begins.

## 📚 Key Features

- **Real Physics Only** - Uses actual thermodynamic equations (specific heat: 4.186 J/g°C, heat of vaporization: 2,257 kJ/kg)
- **Zero Gatekeeping** - No login, instant load, starts with plain English
- **Adaptive Language** - Gradually introduces technical terms as user progresses
- **Layered Complexity** - Simple interface for beginners, detailed physics panels for experts
- **Progressive Unlocking** - Complexity revealed based on user engagement

## 🎓 Educational Progression

- **Stage 0:** Just boil water (30-second experience)
- **Stage 1:** Why altitude matters
- **Stage 2:** Temperature control and precision
- **Stage 3:** Measurement accuracy
- **Stage 4+:** Energy, phase changes, and chemistry expansion

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** React + Vite
- **Future Desktop:** Electron wrapper for Steam distribution
- **Why Web Tech:** This is a data visualization/simulation tool, not a traditional game

## 📖 Documentation

- [Full Documentation](docs/planning/BoilingWater_Full_Documentation.md) - Complete project vision and technical details
- [One-Page Pitch](docs/planning/BoilingWater_OnePage_Pitch.md) - Quick overview of the concept
- [AI Context Guide](AI_CONTEXT.md) - For AI agents working on this codebase
- [Development Setup](docs/guides/DEVELOPMENT.md) - Setup and contribution guide

## 🎯 Current Status

**Phase:** Planning & Initial Development

See [BoilingWater_Full_Documentation.md](BoilingWater_Full_Documentation.md) for the complete vision and roadmap.

## 📝 License

**Dual Licensed:**
- **Code (Software):** GPL-3.0 - Free and open source
- **Creative Content:** CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 - Educational materials, documentation, and designs

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for full details.

## 🤝 Contributing

This project is in early development. Contributions welcome once MVP is established.

## 💡 Inspiration

- **Kerbal Space Program** - Teaches complex physics through accessible gameplay
- **Thing Explainer by Randall Munroe** - Explains complex concepts in simple language

---

**Status:** Planning Phase | **Date:** January 2026
